tools/lint/fix/README.md, before:

# Refactoring the platform with lint
Inspiration: go/refactor-the-platform-with-lint\
**Special Thanks: brufino@, azharaa@, for the prior work that made this all possible**

## What is this?

It's a python script that runs the framework linter,
and then copies modified files back into the source tree.\
Why python, you ask?  Because python is cool ¯\_(ツ)_/¯.

## Why?

Lint is not allowed to modify source files directly via lint's `--apply-suggestions` flag.
As a compromise, soong zips up the (potentially) modified sources and leaves them in an intermediate
directory.  This script runs the lint, unpacks those files, and copies them back into the tree.

## How do I run it?
**WARNING: You probably want to commit/stash any changes to your working tree before doing this...**

From this directory, run `python lint_fix.py -h`.
The script's help output explains things that are omitted here.

Alternatively, there is a python binary target you can build to make this
available anywhere in your tree:
```
m lint_fix
lint_fix -h
```

**Gotcha**: You must have run `source build/envsetup.sh` and `lunch` first.

Example: `lint_fix frameworks/base/services/core/services.core.unboosted UseEnforcePermissionAnnotation --dry-run`
```shell
(
export ANDROID_LINT_CHECK=UseEnforcePermissionAnnotation;
cd $ANDROID_BUILD_TOP;
source build/envsetup.sh;
rm out/soong/.intermediates/frameworks/base/services/core/services.core.unboosted/android_common/lint/lint-report.html;
m out/soong/.intermediates/frameworks/base/services/core/services.core.unboosted/android_common/lint/lint-report.html;
cd out/soong/.intermediates/frameworks/base/services/core/services.core.unboosted/android_common/lint;
unzip suggested-fixes.zip -d suggested-fixes;
cd suggested-fixes;
find . -path ./out -prune -o -name '*.java' -print | xargs -n 1 sh -c 'cp $1 $ANDROID_BUILD_TOP/$1' --;
rm -rf suggested-fixes
)
```

Commit message:

lint_fix: various quality of life improvements
This revamps lint_fix to do as much as possible
directly in python, rather than stitching together shell commands.

It also adds a few small features to lint_fix to save time and
confusion:
- Rather than having to specify the `full/math/to/a/module`, one can
  just specify the module name: e.g. `framework-minus-apex` instead
  of `frameworks/base/framework-minus-apex`
- Add a `--lint-module` argument to specify a custom lint module to
  be passed to the lint invocation. This is useful when we want to run
  all checks from that module (rather than specifying each one
  individually).
- Add a `--print` argument to print the contents of the lint report at
  the end. This is useful for invocations that lead to warnings but
  not errors.

Bug: 232058525
Test: TH
Change-Id: Ic1e038061618e185a652cf3d2293d895ec09762c

tools/lint/fix/README.md, after:

# Refactoring the platform with lint
Inspiration: go/refactor-the-platform-with-lint\
**Special Thanks: brufino@, azharaa@, for the prior work that made this all possible**

## What is this?

It's a python script that runs the framework linter,
and then (optionally) copies modified files back into the source tree.\
Why python, you ask?  Because python is cool ¯\_(ツ)_/¯.

Incidentally, this exposes a much simpler way to run individual lint checks
against individual modules, so it's useful beyond applying fixes.

## Why?

Lint is not allowed to modify source files directly via lint's `--apply-suggestions` flag.
As a compromise, soong zips up the (potentially) modified sources and leaves them in an intermediate
directory.  This script runs the lint, unpacks those files, and copies them back into the tree.

## How do I run it?
**WARNING: You probably want to commit/stash any changes to your working tree before doing this...**

```
source build/envsetup.sh
lunch cf_x86_64_phone-userdebug # or any lunch target
m lint_fix
lint_fix -h
```

The script's help output explains things that are omitted here.
